Overview of Backup & Restoring Database:

 

Backup?

 

1) Always backup is taken of data files and log files.

 

There are 2 types of Backups as per Operational Model:
a) Cold Backup
b) Hot Backup

 

a) Cold Backup: Cold Backup means the backup is taken when the Database 
   is offline or when the SQL Server Service is not running.
   Cold Backup is taken using operating system commands of copy, etc.
   Gernarrly done through command prompt.
   This is simple.
   Cold Backup can be taken by System Administrator as well!
b) Hot Backup: Hot Backup is taken when the Database is getting used, 
   so DB is online.
   Hot Backup can ONLY be taken by DBA.

 

---------------------------------------------------------------

 

There are 3 types of Backups as per Data in that backup:
1) Full Backup
2) Incremental Backup OR Differential Backup (in SS)
3) Transaction Log Backup

 


1) Full Backup: ALL Data files and LOG files backup at a particular point of time is taken.
This is the FIRST TIME backup.
Simplest of all the backups.
Full Backup will consume lot of disk space.
Full Backup are slow.

 

2) Incremental Backup OR Differential Backup (in SS):
* For taking the Incremental or Differential backup you MUST have first taken the Full Backup.
Formula will be as follows:
Backup Strategy  = 1 Full Backup + Incremental or Differential backups of every day
Incremental or Differential backups generally are scheduled.
Incremental or Differential backups are not that SLOW.
We can have multiple Incremental or Differential backups in a day with an interval of 1 hour or so.

 

3) Transaction Log Backup:
One of the most powerful technique for getting 100% recovery.
All the changes done to the database are saved in Transaction Log Backup.
Transaction Log Backup is handy in the following senarios:
a) In case of Transaction Log Backup there is a mechanism of "Tail Log Backup".
Tail Log Backup will have the data which is NOT there in any other previous backups.
As an DBA we need to explicitly configure the Transaction Log Backup as well as its Tail Log Backup.
b) To recover the database "at a particular point of time."
Transaction Log Backup takes MORE space than even the Full Backup.

 

-----------------------------------------------